README.md, before:

# vue_upload_widget

## Project Setup

### UI Setup

```sh
npm install
```

#### Compile and Hot-Reload for Development

```sh
npm run dev
```

#### Compile and Minify for Production

```sh
npm run build
```

#### Lint with [ESLint](https://eslint.org/)

```sh
npm run lint
```

### API Setup

```sh
cd py_upload_server
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # MACOS
source venv/Scripts/activate  # Windows bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python ./uploadserver_modded.py
```

### Note

If the API server does not start up on port `8000`, go to `vite.config.js` and edit the proxy to point to `localhost:<api port number>`.

## @TODO LIST

- [x] Create initial UI mockup.
    - [x] Simple setup
        - [x] Drag and drop functionality to grab in the files
        - [x] `Browse` button to select (and multiselect) files
        - [x] Add components that each have the progress bar/upload panel for each file added.
    - [x] Progress bar
        - [x] Variable updates progress of the progress bar
        - [x] Hidden mode
        - [x] Throbber mode
    - [x] Error capture
- [x] Spin up backend server to receive files.
    - [x] Nevermind, uploadserver is all good. Had to set up a proxy thru `vite.config.js` to get around CORS disallowing the Vue app's origin.
    - [x] Create delete endpoint.
- [x] Connect UI to upload file to server.
    - [x] Create XHR request.
    - [x] Monitor progress of upload.
    - [x] Confirm upload finished.
    - [x] Pressing X while file is uploading cancels/aborts the upload request to the server.
        - [x] check that uploadserver deletes the temp in-flight file (answer: it does)
    - [x] Capture any errors that occur.
        - It seems like the errors that are produced are really low quality.
        - [x] Make an api endpoint to manually test what UI would look like with a 400/500 error.
            - This is to see where the server message comes from in the response data structure.
        - [x] Show server message in the error message UI.
    - [x] Delete the files that are uploaded.
        - [x] Get simple DELETE /upload endpoint running with querystrings showing which filename to delete.
        - ~~[ ] NOTE: run the server with the args that files are overwritten.~~
            - This could be bad if the same file gets uploaded twice and then gets deleted twice.
            - The best thing to do is to change the POST endpoint of the /upload endpoint to return the actual filename of the file that got uploaded (since it can auto rename if there is a name collision)
        - [x] Change POST /update to return name of the auto rename.
        - [x] Inject the new name into the removeFile events.
- [x] BUG: you can't upload the same file twice????
    - Turns out that the filepath gets saved in the file select input element, so if you select the same file twice, it will not trigger `@change`, so I had to reset the selected file so that the same file selected will still trigger `@change` (NOTE: this doesn't affect dropping a file in bc it doesn't use the file selection dialog)
- [x] Make it look good.
    - [x] Do basic, overall styling.
    - [x] Fix drag over flickering.
    - [x] Fix progress bar's top right rounded corner (Look up how to have the background color change/scroll across instead of changing the width property maybe?)
    - [x] Make the delete confirmation modal actually look like something.
    - [x] Create animated throbber.
    - [x] Fix Fontawesome icons not rendering.
    - ~~[ ] (MAYBE) Figure out how to get progress bar to smoothly animate over.~~
        - All efforts did not work that well. I think the way the progress bar is built is the issue. Next time I make a progress bar I'll think about how to animate it.
- [x] Limit filesize to 50mb
    - [x] Make check.
    - [x] Create UI side error message.
- [x] Limit to only 3 uploads at a time.
    - [x] Have `IndividualFile.vue` emit event that their upload finished or failed.
    - [x] Find next pending job and let it upload.
        - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67371579/vue-3-emit-event-from-parent-to-child-component
        - https://vuejs.org/guide/essentials/template-refs.html#accessing-the-refs
        - Apparently refs in v-for are fixed after v3.2.47 or something like that? It should just work.
    - [x] In UI for the pending files, have the text "pending" after the file name.
        - Instead of pending (since it can use more space than wanted), there's a simple throbber anim.
    - [x] BUG: If you cancel an upload of a file, then it will start another upload process for one of the files that's already in there.
        - It looks like it's trying to fetch a certain file but it's one index off.
        - Fixed it by making `IndividualFile.vue` components poll at an interval to request an uploading spot.
            - ~~[ ] With this method, there may be race conditions. Study JS to see if this is true.~~
                - I will do this later.
            - [x] If an error occurs, unlocking the slot where the upload reserved doesn't get unlocked due to an error, so putting the upload file id before starting the upload process fixed this bug.

Commit message:

Add endpoint and UI to fetch previously uploaded files. Fix light theme white text (error, delete modal).

README.md, after:

# vue_upload_widget

## Project Setup

### UI Setup

```sh
npm install
```

#### Compile and Hot-Reload for Development

```sh
npm run dev
```

#### Compile and Minify for Production

```sh
npm run build
```

#### Lint with [ESLint](https://eslint.org/)

```sh
npm run lint
```

### API Setup

```sh
cd py_upload_server
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # MACOS
source venv/Scripts/activate  # Windows bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python ./uploadserver_modded.py -d ./uploaded_files
```

### Note

If the API server does not start up on port `8000`, go to `vite.config.js` and edit the proxy to point to `localhost:<api port number>`.

## @TODO LIST

- [x] Create initial UI mockup.
    - [x] Simple setup
        - [x] Drag and drop functionality to grab in the files
        - [x] `Browse` button to select (and multiselect) files
        - [x] Add components that each have the progress bar/upload panel for each file added.
    - [x] Progress bar
        - [x] Variable updates progress of the progress bar
        - [x] Hidden mode
        - [x] Throbber mode
    - [x] Error capture
- [x] Spin up backend server to receive files.
    - [x] Nevermind, uploadserver is all good. Had to set up a proxy thru `vite.config.js` to get around CORS disallowing the Vue app's origin.
    - [x] Create delete endpoint.
- [x] Connect UI to upload file to server.
    - [x] Create XHR request.
    - [x] Monitor progress of upload.
    - [x] Confirm upload finished.
    - [x] Pressing X while file is uploading cancels/aborts the upload request to the server.
        - [x] check that uploadserver deletes the temp in-flight file (answer: it does)
    - [x] Capture any errors that occur.
        - It seems like the errors that are produced are really low quality.
        - [x] Make an api endpoint to manually test what UI would look like with a 400/500 error.
            - This is to see where the server message comes from in the response data structure.
        - [x] Show server message in the error message UI.
    - [x] Delete the files that are uploaded.
        - [x] Get simple DELETE /upload endpoint running with querystrings showing which filename to delete.
        - ~~[ ] NOTE: run the server with the args that files are overwritten.~~
            - This could be bad if the same file gets uploaded twice and then gets deleted twice.
            - The best thing to do is to change the POST endpoint of the /upload endpoint to return the actual filename of the file that got uploaded (since it can auto rename if there is a name collision)
        - [x] Change POST /update to return name of the auto rename.
        - [x] Inject the new name into the removeFile events.
- [x] BUG: you can't upload the same file twice????
    - Turns out that the filepath gets saved in the file select input element, so if you select the same file twice, it will not trigger `@change`, so I had to reset the selected file so that the same file selected will still trigger `@change` (NOTE: this doesn't affect dropping a file in bc it doesn't use the file selection dialog)
- [x] Make it look good.
    - [x] Do basic, overall styling.
    - [x] Fix drag over flickering.
    - [x] Fix progress bar's top right rounded corner (Look up how to have the background color change/scroll across instead of changing the width property maybe?)
    - [x] Make the delete confirmation modal actually look like something.
    - [x] Create animated throbber.
    - [x] Fix Fontawesome icons not rendering.
    - ~~[ ] (MAYBE) Figure out how to get progress bar to smoothly animate over.~~
        - All efforts did not work that well. I think the way the progress bar is built is the issue. Next time I make a progress bar I'll think about how to animate it.
- [x] Limit filesize to 50mb
    - [x] Make check.
    - [x] Create UI side error message.
- [x] Limit to only 3 uploads at a time.
    - [x] Have `IndividualFile.vue` emit event that their upload finished or failed.
    - [x] Find next pending job and let it upload.
        - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67371579/vue-3-emit-event-from-parent-to-child-component
        - https://vuejs.org/guide/essentials/template-refs.html#accessing-the-refs
        - Apparently refs in v-for are fixed after v3.2.47 or something like that? It should just work.
    - [x] In UI for the pending files, have the text "pending" after the file name.
        - Instead of pending (since it can use more space than wanted), there's a simple throbber anim.
    - [x] BUG: If you cancel an upload of a file, then it will start another upload process for one of the files that's already in there.
        - It looks like it's trying to fetch a certain file but it's one index off.
        - Fixed it by making `IndividualFile.vue` components poll at an interval to request an uploading spot.
            - ~~[ ] With this method, there may be race conditions. Study JS to see if this is true.~~
                - I will do this later.
            - [x] If an error occurs, unlocking the slot where the upload reserved doesn't get unlocked due to an error, so putting the upload file id before starting the upload process fixed this bug.
- [x] Add a GET endpoint to list what files exist.
    - [x] Search file directory for all files that exist.
    - [x] Use different directory for storing files (updated README.md).
    - [x] Sort the files in the order that they were uploaded.
- [x] Fix light theme white text on the red backgrounds.
    - Delete modal
    - Error messages
